The hazard is not simply guilt because ideals have not been met. Rather, any loss of a good and coherent self-feeling is associated with intensely experienced emotions such as shame and depression, plus an anguished sense of helplessness and disorientation. To prevent this state, the narcissistic personality slides the meanings of events in order to place the self in a better light.
Such fluid shifts in meanings permit the narcissistic personality to maintain apparent logical consistency while minimising evil or weakness and exaggerating innocence or control. As part of these manoeuvres, the narcissistic personality may assume attitudes of contemptuous superiority toward others, emotional coldness, or even desperately charming approaches to idealised figures."


Freud regression:
subject-directed libido to object-directed libido process
default to next stage when reaches the object
default to regression stage:
                    first adaptive narcissism: one self gratification
                    second mal-adaptive narcissism: fail to project libido to object
lazy to take the "easy" route of resorting to one self and reinvesting libidinal resources "in-house" rather than making an effort (and risking failure) to seek out libidinal objects other than one self. 
                    fantasyland to reality, grandiose self-conception to realistic appraisal, masturbation and fantasies to mature adult sex and daydreaming to real life achievements.

Jung regression:
mental picture of the psyche as a giant warehouse of archetypes:
                    fantasies are just a way of accessing and releasing these archetypes.
regression is just one choice or embodiment of adaptation strategy, cannot secure a steady flow of gratification.


The regression is a compensatory process to get to adaptation in the sense of gratification
narcissism(first & secondary) to adaptation reacting in fuctioanl and adaptive behaviors to secure gratification
                                 *if not gratified (anxiety), the behavior are inadaptive yet, need to enhance adaptation.

Freud introversion:
pathological service to narcissism

Jung introversion:
useful tool in the service of the psychic quest for adaptation strategies (narcissism being one of them)
introversion is not pathological since no psychological mechanism is pathological
the use made of introversion can be pathological.(Jung) vs introversion is a permanent feature of a person's psyche, which facilitates pathological narcissism.(Freud)

Degree to narcissistic train:
the habitual and predominant focus of one-self, exlusion of others, leads to the degree of pathological narcissism(exlusive and all-pervasive)
when adaptive mechanism goes awry to neuroses form
                                                  :narcissism either POINT(Freud) or CONTINUUM(Jung)
